title: The Story
-
content:

# The Story

As a teenager, James Randi ran away from home to join a carnival and never looked back.  Over decades, his feats of magic, escape, and mentalism made him an international celebrity. Yet he saw those same tricks also being used for thievery and deceit. Incensed by this, he dedicated his life to exposing those frauds.  Today, the beloved and reviled sage tirelessly continues his mission at the age of 84 – and it has only grown more intense.

An Honest Liar will reveal the colorful life of James “The Amazing” Randi, explore the history and dangers of magical thinking and deception, and watch firsthand as Randi is caught up in a very personal hoax of his own.

Through interviews, vintage photos, and brilliant archival footage, An Honest Liar will chronicle how a curious and precocious child rose to the ranks of legendary showman and then became a renowned demystifier of paranormal claims.  The seminal episodes in Randi’s career will be relived, including his celebrated debunking of the spoon-bending Uri Geller.  Audiences will get inside stories of how Randi exposed the fraudulent faith-healer Peter Popoff and revealed the tricks of “knifeless surgery”.  The film will bring to life “Project Alpha”, where two magicians led by Randi pretended to be psychics and fooled a scientific research study on paranormal powers, as well as the famous “Carlos Hoax” where Randi exposed the gullibility of the public by unleashing a fake mystic upon the people of Australia.

But not everything about Randi may be as honest as he claims.  In late 2011, authorities surrounded Randi’s home and arrested his partner of 25 years, Jose Alvarez.  Jose, who had played the mystic “Carlos”, is in fact someone other than “Jose Alvarez”.  And Randi, who has spent his life exposing deception, has either perpetrated another hoax, or has been living with a man who himself perpetrated a fraud.

Interspersed with episodes from his past, the film shows Randi as he travels the world fighting for truth. Speaking with such luminaries as Penn &Teller, Richard Dawkins, Neil DeGrasse Tyson, Adam Savage, and Alice Cooper, the film will also explore skepticism, illusion, and how easily human perception is fooled. The importance of science and reason will be shown in contrast to unbelievable acts of magic, all seen through the life and legend of The Amazing Randi.
